Does everyone present here really know what's creativity? Austin Kleon relates creativity to theft in his famous book "Steal like an artist". He thinks that creativity comes as you spend time and go deep into a topic and steal what's needed from other's work. I always considered myself to be less creative for some reason. Whenever it came to doing something creative, I tend to succumb to the voice within myself saying "Nah, you don't understand creativity".
I agonized and agonized about what I lacked. Is it that I can never be creative or is there something that represses its manifestation?

Hello, myself Tapesh Vashisth, and today, I am here to give some insights on the topic "do deadlines hinder creativity?". I stand neutral
about it because it depends. It depends on the type of person and his/her way of doing things. There can be 2 different kinds of people: 
1. people who are always on time, always busy, doing something or the other, and hate to spend time doing nothing.
2. people who are born to procrastinate and don't care until the work is super urgent.

So, I belong to the first category of people and yeah, I keep myself busy most of the time. When I was assigned the task for this speech, I was 
concerned about it because of the belief that I am not good at having creativity in my speech. I took the task lightly as I had time till 8th Oct, but 
I felt the gravity of the matter when it was rescheduled to 24th Sept. So, what happens with the first category of people is that they don't give sufficient time to think, to let creativity manifest itself. They tend to think about the next step rather than giving 100% to the present task. But the deadline compelled me to focus on the speech wholesomely. In this case, a deadline breaks the schedule of a busy person compelling him to focus on just one task and thus, letting the creativity come out. 

The second category according to me finds it hard when deadlines are imposed as they have little experience in working according to the deadlines. They are accustomed to working without pressure and find it hard to do the task on time. Even when they do it on time, generally speaking, it's not always their best work. On the contrary, they perform well without time limits. Adam Grant in his book "how non-conformists move the world" mentions procrastination as a good trait as when you put off a task, you buy yourself some time to engage in divergent thinking rather than narrowing down on one particular idea. The research found that people were, in fact, most creative when they are under low to moderate time pressure.

So, deadlines are perceived differently by these two categories of people. The first category perceives it as a chance to get out of the strict schedule and spend time thinking about a particular topic. It happens to be advantageous for them. Whereas, the second category of people perceives it as a burden and hence aren't able to give their best. 

Thus, me, deadlines can be helpful but they should not be too tight. Thank you all for your time.









